Basic Git Commands
1. git init
Meaning: Initializes a new Git repository in the current directory.
Why: Starts version control for your project.

2. git clone <repo-url>
Meaning: Copies a remote repository to your local machine.
Why: To work on an existing project from GitHub or other Git servers.

3. git status
Meaning: Shows the current state of your working directory and staging area.
Why: To check which files are modified, staged, or untracked.

4. git add .
Meaning: Stages all changes (new, modified, deleted files) for commit.
Why: Prepares files to be included in the next commit.

(You can also use git add <filename> for specific files.)

5. git commit -m "message"
Meaning: Saves staged changes to the local repository with a message.
Why: Creates a snapshot of your project history.

6. git push -u origin <branch>
Meaning: Pushes your local commits to the remote repository and sets upstream tracking.
Why: Shares your changes with others and links your local branch to the remote branch.

(After first push, you can just use git push.)

7. git pull origin <branch>
Meaning: Fetches and merges changes from the remote branch into your local branch.
Why: Keeps your local copy up to date with the remote repository.

8. git branch
Meaning: Lists all branches in your repo.
Why: To see which branch you are on and manage branches.

9. git checkout -b <branch-name>
Meaning: Creates a new branch and switches to it.
Why: To work on a new feature without affecting the main branch.

10. git merge <branch>
Meaning: Combines changes from another branch into the current branch.
Why: To integrate features or fixes.

11. git remote -v

Meaning: Shows remote repositories linked to your project.
Why: To verify your GitHub URL or other remotes.

12. git log
Meaning: Displays commit history.
Why: To review changes and authors.

13. git rm -r <folder>
Meaning: Removes a folder from the repository and stages the deletion.
Why: To delete unwanted directories from GitHub.

14. git config --global user.name "Your Name"
Meaning: Sets your Git username globally.
Why: Identifies you in commits.

15. git config --global user.email "your-email@example.com"
Meaning: Sets your Git email globally.
Why: Links commits to your GitHub account.
